=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Biblio::Zotero::DB - helper module to access the Zotero SQLite database

=head1 VERSION

version 0.002

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  my $db = Biblio::Zotero::DB->new( profile_name => 'abc123.default' );
  $db->schema->resultset('Item')->all;

=head1 ATTRIBUTES

=head2 schema

A L<DBIx::Class> schema that is connected to the C<zotero.sqlite> file.

This can be cleared using C<clear_schema>.

=head2 db_file

A string that contains the filename of the C<zotero.sqlite> file.
The default is located in the directory of C<L</profile_directory>> attribute.

=head2 storage_directory

A string that contains the directory where the Zotero attachments are located.
The default is the C<storage> subdirectory of the C<L</profile_directory>> directory.

=head2 profile_directory

A string that contains the directory where the C<zotero.sqlite> database is located,

  $db->profile_directory( "$ENV{HOME}/.zotero/zotero/abc123.default/zotero/" );

=head2 profile_name

A string containing the profile name to use. Setting this will set the
C<L</profile_directory>> attribute.

  $db->profile_name( 'abc123.default' );
  # corresponds to a profile directory such as
  # <~/.zotero/zotero/abc123.default/zotero/>

=head1 METHODS

=head2 find_profile_directories()

Returns an arrayref of the possible profile directories that contain a
Zotero SQLite database. This can be used as a class method.

see: L<http://www.zotero.org/support/zotero_data>

  Biblio::Zotero::DB->find_profile_directories()
  # returns:
  # [
  #   "$ENV{HOME}/.zotero/zotero/abc123.default/zotero",
  #   "$ENV{HOME}/.zotero/zotero/def567.default/zotero"
  # ]

=head1 EXAMPLE

  use Biblio::Zotero::DB;
  use List::UtilsBy qw(min_by);

  # find the most recently modified
  my $newest = min_by { -M } @{Biblio::Zotero::DB->find_profile_directories};
  my $db = Biblio::Zotero::DB->new( profile_directory => $newest  );

  # if there is an issue with the database lock here,
  # see L<Biblio::Zotero::DB::Role::CopyDB>
  $db->schema->resultset('Item')->all;

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item * L<Biblio::Zotero::DB::Role::CopyDB>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Zakariyya Mughal <zmughal@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2013 by Zakariyya Mughal.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
